you are alive against stupendous odds
and I take the posture that because of
this life should be cherished when you
received like an anonymous call from a
number you don't know you're like yes
probably a scam I'm going to ignore it
but when you receive these ads directly
through a platform that you trust the
chances of you being biased are so much
higher this kind of hacking always seems
to have a financial objective
what is the total money earned by Bad
actors total last year was $1.5 trillion
what there's a te in there
[Music]
oh this is Star Talk special edition
Neil degrass Tyson here your personal
astrophysicist and of course we got Gary
O'Reilly Gary former Soccer Pro Sports
commentator yep hi Neil and
longtime co-host of Star Talk Chuck nice
what's going on guys Gary's sporting a
new part have you noticed oh parting is
there on a different side look at that
no I don't sorry I put it on the I put
it on the wrong way yes you
did today's topic is one of my favorite
just as an educator simply because it's
where people misthink things most often
and I feel extra responsible to try to
get in there and make it work for them
we're going to talk about probabilities
so Gary it was your idea to do this
topic I love the topic and I I devoted a
whole chapter to it in a recent book I
published uh so I'm I'm pretty fresh in
commentary regarding it but more
specifically where did you want to take
me on this so probabilities Neil um
calcul risk gambling call it what you
will we all do it uh stand on a wobbly
chair eat that food in the fridge that's
been there two weeks it's a gamble
probabilities has its own branch of
mathematics yeah and it's intertwined
into so much of our everyday lives risk
and assessment for insurance predicting
extreme weather models uh which has been
very very important in the last few
weeks uh it's baked into Ai and
especially
that annoying predictive text program in
my computer that tells me what I should
be typing and I hate it for that only um
it's probability that's used in
cyberspace and uh we do without
realizing have that baked in again and
we'll get to that later on in the show
when our guest uh Alex kosoy he's Chief
security strategist at Bit Defender the
Cyber Security Experts and we'll we'll
open up what it's all about where it's
going what it's likely to look like
going forward and our approach to risk
itself so having said that Neil let's
let's find out more about what happens
when a bunch of physicists turn up in
Las
Vegas well let me let me preface this by
saying back in the
1980s the my community of physicists the
American physical Society the aps there
have annual meetings and one of them was
scheduled for San Diego uh San Diego
especially of late is a big convention
Town Comic Con you know the most famous
of the world's comiccons takes place
there the whole city sort of adjusts for
it there's a convention center and
everything anyhow the community of
physicists had booked hotels and was
ready and it turned out there was a
snafu where the hotel reservations
failed for some reason and I don't
remember why so here's this convention
That was supposed to happen and it can't
happen so what do you do well the MGM
Grand then the MGM Marina in Vegas say
we'll take you we are the largest hotel
in the country we can take you on short
notice so the aps pivoted to Vegas
pivoted and so that Year's convention
was in Vegas where people give talks and
their public talks and and professional
talks and this sort of thing all right a
lot of breakout rooms it's where we sort
of reconnect especially in an era before
there was much emailing going on it's a
geek it's a geek Fest geekfest thank you
physics geekfest well a week later there
was a headline this is after the
conference physicists in
town lowest Casino take
ever the American physical Society has
been asked to never return to the city
that's great and so you can ask well did
the physicist sort of know the odds and
play the odds no they just didn't didn't
play because here it is it is the only
activity where the people tell you we
are legally cheating
you now we just want you to know this
when you come in the reason why we say
good luck is because we already win
and the great thing is CH when you start
when you get a little bit of a run going
if you that ever happens they see you
and they bring you they bring you free
drinks well I was going to
say any place where that brings you free
drinks there's a trap
somewhere there's nobody that says hey
just drink up all my liquor and uh yeah
and that's all we're good no
so no here's a cat
cabinet like I have some I had a party
where my best friend at the
time opened up my cabinet and took out a
bottle of the Mallen 30-year-old
Scott right which I don't share with
anybody okay and proceeded to pour off
my Mallen to my other friends and I went
around and picked up the glasses what
the hell are you doing this you don't
get to this this is so anybody giving
you free liquor is a catch that's all
there is to it so that lets you know
what what Vegas is up to nice to know
nice to know you've let that go Chuck
yeah Chuck is still in therapy for many
things many things that is that is one
of them yeah so I I thought I'd look a
little more deeply into this only to
discover that if you look at various
branches of mathematics yeah right of
which there are many but let me list a
few let's go in sort of historical order
there's sort of geometry Geo geometry
means Earth measurement by the way yeah
from I guess that would be Greek
geometry Earth measurement you have
geometry you have
arithmetic you have algebra which is the
terrorist version of Mathematics
Algebra I'm sorry I'm just move on let's
keep
moving jebra uh you uh we keep going you
can get to calculus there's
trigonometry yeah whole branches of math
that we remember even if you're part of
the walking wounded of those classes we
remember these from perhaps as early as
Middle School certainly high school if
you sequence these do you realize all of
those branches of math
were discovered in vented before it
occurred to anyone to take the average
of numbers okay oh interesting I see
what you're saying okay
yes that's weird that is that's weird
when you think about that so here are
these numbers you add them together
divide by the total somebody had to do
that first okay that didn't happen until
uh when when did I have late 18th
century long after calculus Newton had
calculus in the bag okay by the late
1600s early 1700s calculus people and
now someone later on says H let me sum
these numbers together and divide and
see if that means anything well that's
early statistics right and there books
as late as the
1800s that believed these are official
math books that described how you can
influence the outcome of a certain set
of probabilities because they believed
that was the case because probability
and statistics was not yet properly
formulated as an authentic and Bonafide
branch of mathematics right point is why
is that so how is it that people we in
our species can say we need
calculus and there's no probability okay
there must be some something absent in
brain wiring yeah that prevents us from
thinking natively in this space yeah
it's it's it's called heuristic
huous it's that's who we are because
outcomes are what we want them to be not
what the math says and we still do that
we still do that we still do do that to
this day are we not hardwired Neil to
calculate risk as a survival mechanism
well okay so if you speak with sort of
evolutionary biologists
uh they will frequently and I think
without much um debate tell you that we
do make certain assessments yeah for
example if this will take us to an
aspect of how the brain works but
consider there's something that repeats
multiple times and you learn that and it
hurts you yeah then you say well let me
not do that again so then you don't and
then you avoid it so this is this is
simple so this is the act of how
repeated
occurrences decide for you what the
future is going to be all right and this
this matters for survival my favorite
survival fact is how we put order on
things even if there's no order there
that has extraordinary consequences
exactly let's look at how it might have
begun so we're in the serengetti and you
don't want to get eaten by a lion and
there's the grass you know the the grass
is blowing in the breeze and you say to
yourself I wonder if there's a lion
there in fact I think there is let me go
check yeah yeah right okay this will
summarily remove sort of the Curiosity
Gene
in because because you don't you don't
get to have children to be curious if it
is a lion it is a lion you'll get to
have curious children to the extent that
curiosity is is inherited okay so it
turns out we are better off thinking
there's a lion in the grass right
whether or not there is and then going
in the opposite
direction than not thinking there's a
lion in the grass missing it and having
it eat us but consider that we think
there's a lion in the brush whether or
not there is one and that's the genes
that got protected okay okay so this is
pattern recognition we will see patterns
even if there isn't a pattern there we
can put a set of random dots right and
you say oh I see this and I see that you
must have done that on purpose because I
see it and your life experience
overrides the mathematics of what just
happened and or your life expectations
or your life belief system overrides it
the patent recognition NE is the
probability that that will happen as you
say from experience and we use this in
sport a lot from from analyzing gameplay
so let me bring this to the present we
have this feature in our brain wiring to
detect patterns even if they aren't
there because that was in the interest
of our survival we're not making those
same decisions anymore about whether we
might get eaten by a lion but that's
still that that brain feature remains
within us and we see patterns in
everything and we think because we see a
pattern that the pattern is real even we
think the absence of patterns is a
pattern you at a roulette table and I
say why you keep betting on seven it's
due
it's and I said how do you know it's do
because the roulette table shows you the
previous 10 roles okay spins or the
previous 20 and you you don't see a
seven it's due no it's not D go take a
freaking probability class yeah it's a
it's not due the same way the Washington
generals are not do to beat the Harlem
glob trods yeah how about that they play
the Washington generals I don't know
what they're called now I don't know
like 40 years
ago so uh this this notion that because
it hasn't happened recently it's bound
to happen in your next bet
is how casinos make money casinos exist
to exploit these
of the human brain wiring they exist for
that purpose but it goes back to the
point you had about magicians the
casinos know more about how you think
than you do yes and they manipulate that
obviously and it's completely
manipulated and like like Chuck said
they tell you that going tell you
straight up hey by the way we're going
to cheat you today enjoy yourself by the
way as a scientist we know how important
probability is to separate your own bias
on what is going on in the world from
what is objectively going on in the
world so every year I was in school we
had some element of probability and
statistics taught related to the aspect
of the of the sciences that we were
addressing so I would say all told I
might have had eight years of
probability in statistics yet if you
look in a school curriculum it's not
there at all no at all now will you
grant me one conspiracy theory go ahead
depends which one it is no see Chuck
Believes In Me he just says go out go
ahead go for it if he doesn't like it
he's going to slam you down but never
mind okay here it is you know the state
lottery systems yeah Lottery uh do you
know how they get funding for that and
what they you know there's tax levied on
that do you know where that money goes
to typically well they tell you that
it's for education education let's
assume that's true let's even assume
that's true so it's for education and I
said oh that's it public education you
know K through 12 and then I looked at
the curricula across the country of what
is taught and probability if it's taught
at all is only an elective it's not a
fundamental part of the math
curriculum and so it occurred to me that
as long as they don't teach probability
in school you are susceptible to playing
the lottery which funds the school which
funds the school yeah paying for your
education probability it could be the
end of the state lottery system well
yeah because anybody who knows something
about probability does not play the
lottery as a matter of fact
uh my father used to tell me uh take a
dollar a day the dollar you would play
the lottery start right now and just
take that everyday dollar and put it in
the bank and through compound interest
uh it will take 20 years but you will
hit the
Lottery that's good yeah people trying
to assess their health or their Security
based on risk risk factors and I I think
in the book I there are people who smoke
knowing that there's a risk of cancer
yeah and I think if you're an active
smoker there's a one in eight chance
that your Tombstone will say died of
lung cancer and so then I thought let me
glorify that up a bit
and say okay uh instead of you just
taking that risk let's do it this way
today everyone who lights up a
cigarette one in eight of them on that
first puff their head will explode and
they'll fall over in a pile of Blood on
the on the pavement and if that is not
you you get to smoke for the rest of
your life without cancer would you take
that risk well what brand of cigarettes
are we talking the exploding kind the
exploding
kind so so what I tried to do in the
book was rejigger the risk into
something that might be a little more
tangible a little more devastating for
you to hear even if the numerics remain
the same just to try to get at the fact
that a brain is not wired for this to
happen so yeah Gary it's uh it's sad
even I drive by casinos and it's like
man uh I'm sad for our brain wiring and
for the education system that doesn't
address that fact you drive past the
casino Neil how often is the car park
full full all the time yeah all the time
yeah it's why you got to be an
especially bad business person to lose
money if you own a
casino or in a movie where George Cy
turns up with some
friends otions 111 12 and 13 14 15 20
whatever they're up to now so Neil if I
mean we're programmed we're hardwired
but how do we get here what's the
probability of actually us existing
being alive being born now do you mean
like having a Mother Like Mine and
making it to adulthood or do you mean
like being conceived at all well let's
let's start with conception oh okay and
then move through the through the
laundry list obviously humans have no
trouble making More Humans right 8
billion in the world will put an ASM
toote probably to 10 billion in the
coming decades so having a a person of
any kind is not the issue here we can
ask the question what are the chances of
you specifically you Gary O'Reilly
having been born yeah and so we look at
your your genetic code and a way to
address that is how many possible
configurations of that genetic code
exist wow and you're the one that's you
yes okay so you can do that now you know
there's lots of ways that they arrange
and many of them you it makes a human
but it's not entirely viable where you
have like three arms and two heads or
whatever so if you remove all the ones
that create oddly different but still
living humans okay and so we talk about
what we call a normal human the
different ways you can estimate
this but we think it's one in a
billion
trillion
trillion that's not even a
number what you just said does it's not
even a number that's what a kid says
right a million a billion million
trillion that's
[Laughter]
but but there's a lot of configurations
point is the total number of humans who
have ever been born that you can
estimate that is about a 100 billion
okay just that's a round number but
that's about what it is so you can ask
if a 100 billion humans have ever been
born yet we have the capacity to make a
billion trillion trillion humans a
vanishingly small fraction of all humans
who could ever exist have ever been born
right interesting so what are the
chances of you showing up once again in
this genetic code the answer is
never it's never yeah okay because of
how much larger the total number of
possibilities are compared to anything
we will ever create on this
Earth so you are
alive you Gary or
yeah are alive against stupendous
odds and I take the posture in the book
that because of
this life should be cherished agreed and
by the way even if you did show up again
in the genetic code there's no reason to
think it would be you no it would look
exactly like you but we've done these
experiments they're call twins we have
identical DNA and you're not the same
person you have independent thoughts
okay you even have different finger
prints turns out uh so the Clone
experiment doesn't require a machine to
wonder how that's going to turn out
people said we shouldn't have clone
machines because we'll clone people for
their organs and I'm thinking do we do
that with twins today do we do we
purposefully have twins to take out
their org no why would we behave any
differently with a cloning machine than
we do in the presence of twins that
already Walk Among Us point is you're
never going to get another Gary right
and so armed with that information that
Cosmic that scientifically informed
Cosmic perspective we should treat life
as the most cherished thing on earth and
not enough people do leading to all
manner of misery and bloodshed and War
and in this world and I wonder if people
really knew the statistics of this if we
treat each other more kindly and more
considerately than we do depends on how
much you like war and blood shed you
know oh some people some people are into
that you know not in their own Bloodshed
that's no that's the point yeah exact
it's so funny you're such a scientist
because you actually went at that from
the DNA configuration uh perspective
which I find fascinating because I
thought about this like I think
everybody thinks like you know could
there ever be another me or how many
like like what did it take for me to get
here and I looked up the average number
of viable sperm in an ejaculate which is
somewhere around 200 million yeah yeah
half a billion typically some somewhere
around there or it could be yeah
somewhere and that means that for just
me and that one
batch you're one in 200 million that
alone gives you an idea of just how hard
it is uh for a human being to come to
existence right and that's another
another angle that probability takes you
into yeah the Rarity of who you are as
an individual wow yeah so yeah I I don't
Gary did I hit all the points you you
were looking for yeah I mean we the
thing is if we if we go and do every
single one we are going to be here for
another day right so Gary where else are
we going to take this all right so we
look at our our everyday lives and
without realizing it we are calculating
as we've discussed and it's kind of like
baked into a number of things we are
living Our Lives on online some people
conduct a whole part of their life
online they'll have maybe a dozen 10 or
so online accounts which they manage
which means passwords which means
protection which means security all
those things and the probability of all
the bad stuff probability of it being
okay so I think what we need to do is
speak to someone who's really at that
Cutting Edge of cyber security and for
that we have our dear friends at Bit
Defender the cyber Security Experts and
we have Alex kosoy I do believe that's
how you pronounce it if got it wrong
I'll Stand in a corner um he is their
Chief security strategist so this this
guy is a guy who doesn't just try and
look after things he will go after botn
Nets with Euro or interpole and bring
them down they're on a a large scale
level as well as the personal level so
there's a whole different range of how
they operate which I think could be very
fascinating and add another facet to how
probabilities are entwined into our
lives yeah because lately when I choose
a password it tries to tell me whether
it's a good password or a bad password
and presumably there's some risk factor
calculated to assess that otherwise why
would it know anything at all like one
two three four is a bad
password I mean there there's
information that you have right that in
the public domain for your birthday
maybe the probability of something bad
happening is greater so we need to speak
to that expert and Neil here is Alex
Alex hey welcome to Star Talk hi Neil hi
guys thank you you have the bad assest
title of anybody ever it's nobody just
made
up Chief give me the title again Chief
what chief security strategist Chief
security strategist we should salute
shouldn't
we so Alex let me start with a couple of
questions here the word risk is related
to probability and statistics people
think they understand risk generally
they don't or they what they do
understand is not the full story
typically but they're making decisions
about their lives about their health
their wealth and their Security based on
their understanding of risk so Alex in
what way does the probability of a Cyber
attack fold into your decisions and your
job yeah this is uh as you were talking
earlier because I've been listening the
the probability of somebody being
attacked uh I I would say it's biased uh
from my perspectives is
100% everybody will be hacked or
attacked or scammed scammed at one point
or another
but we also did a a study a few years
back and all the respondents in total
like 76% of them said I don't think
somebody will Target me I don't have
enough money why would I be of any
interest super false that's not how
things are going in the cyber crime
industry they're practically attacking
everybody and it's probability and
present of who actually says and accepts
that link and clicks on button and does
the next step so I'm pretty sure Gary
Neil Chuck you've been targeted by a
scam at least once in the past two years
I put
$10,000 on that okay yeah of course can
I have that $10,000 I've actually
targeted people in scams
myself but the thing is there's a
sophistication to the scam because if if
someone comes in and this has happened
to me they take a very small amount to
begin with and if you don't notice it
and let it skip through your bank
statement they come back in and go grab
no there's a there's a there's an uper
to that so they tell you you can invest
in this particular business you put like
you know $10 and you receive in return
$50 and then they tell you if you put
more you'll get more so you put 10 grand
nothing comes back how about that wow
okay so it's it's a con
game it's not just a a Cyber attack all
in cyber there's somebody has to
communicate with you correct gain your
confidence and then so this just another
con game then it's a shell game you know
you're moving those shows around there's
a whatever the stone underneath it is it
is but all these things happen now in
the cyber world so about WhatsApp
telegram Instagram Facebook things that
you actually uh use every day and these
platforms are actually challenging you
into spending more and more hours in
front of them so when scammer shows up
in your platform you you already believe
that this has already been vouched it
has been like a checked if it's safe or
not so you already have like a 50% bias
to to do it right to fall for it so our
familiarity with with these platforms
with our time spent on on a screen that
familiarity breeds the complacency is
that what you're saying I'm sorry guys I
hate to interrupt but as you can see I
got to answer this call it's potential
spam
so how about so you know that's it's
just coming in right now so you know
that clearly that's a scam of somebody
trying to get something from me yeah the
idea is that when you received like an
anonymous call from a number you don't
know or an email from somebody you don't
really know you're like yes probably a
scam I'm going to ignore it like you
have your phone with potential scam but
when you receive these ads dur directly
to a platform that you trust you've been
using it for years the chances of you uh
being biased and inore Neil as you're
saying the probability of being scammed
you you pass the bias are so much higher
like oh so I received this ad on
Instagram to buy a ticket to um some
concert okay maybe Taylor Swift because
it's super in the news right now and
it's so so much cheaper than the actual
prices and it's on this Instagram or
Facebook or whatever you'll buy it
oh wow and if you read the news it's
about at least a million or more on
every concert million dollars yep on
every concert for country for Country
Concert yeah that's a very good business
y see now a lot of bands a lot of bands
use one particular Outlet here we all
spend our times doing phds and
research so can I ask what why why do
they want your emails like I get a lot
of emails from I I just delete them
because there's either nothing in the
body or it's a link and I'm like okay
everybody who knows me knows I'm not
opening any links so I just I just
delete it why would you want to get my
email list what you hear people say oh I
got hacked don't you know my email list
got hacked what is the value in an email
list okay so if I get a single email
address okay I can search known
databases or passwords associated with
that email address oh my God attct
companies or other leaked databases okay
so I have your email address and now I
have a list of passwords that you use on
different websites oh what I can go
further anyone else scared right
now with those passwords dude you're
freaking us Alex you're freaking us out
oh my God Alex this is terrible shut up
now I don't want to hear anything more
from you I'd rather live in my
Blissful if you want you can give me
your email addresses and I can do the
search for you you'll be no no no no no
no you can't You' already said trust me
right now you want my email address he
Trust so wait a minute first they get
your email then they get the passwords
and what else can they do I mean what's
the next step well there are many steps
later on because I can uh see if these
passwords are still working so getting
into your various accounts I can also
see if you have the same password to a
different email address that I don't
know about like your business email or
your Yahoo email that you US 10 years
ago and you didn't change a password and
I can see all your previous girlfriend
from when you are
17s how about that there are so many
possibilities if you work in a company
and uh email and passwords works I can
use those to connect to your I don't
know VPN account launch your ransomware
attack make some billions out of it okay
mental note change all email passwords
every password I must change change it
every day every day yeah we see hacks we
see data leaks and
breaches and it seems to be one a week
almost um and I know you do these you
fight these these Bad actors daily and
thank God the people like you are out
there but are we not now kind of
desensitized and people are to the point
where it's going to happen so what the
hell have we lost that sensitivity to
the impact that this could make uh yes
but not with the right mindset for this
conclusion because yes there are news of
cyber attacks literally every day so
when I wake up and read the news at
least one hack per day right so people
are reading this and they're like y y y
not going to happen to me that's
unfortunately the the bias and the
conclusion of having being Des sensitiv
by this news and when it happens and
I've been talking to hundreds of victims
they're like I had no idea this is going
to happen to me you know I just came up
with an idea that I'm sure somebody else
has had to have but why is isn't there a
service where I
subscribe I have a master password but
then that service changes my password on
a daily basis and all I need to do is
have the one password to get into them
yes these Services exist they don't
change your password every day because
you don't have to do that okay it's
recommended to change your password I
would say maybe every three months the
password that you use on these accounts
but these password managers this is how
they're called they will do what so when
you subcribe to a service you don't have
to think about okay what password should
I use should it be long short numbers
you so these are going to suggest a
password they're going to save it for
you you don't even need to know it and
every time you need to log into that
service the password manager will fill
in the password for you and some of the
browsers already have this functionality
built in so that's fine there are other
uh dedicated software that they're going
to keep this passwords list super
protected with super encryption but yes
the idea is that you remember one single
master password and everything else is
being taken care of because for us every
you know regular people let's be honest
okay so now in 2024 we might have an
education of this but I bet you we have
accounts that have been created in 2010
we stopped using them in 2012 they're
still active the passwords are still for
I don't know 1 2 3 4 for instance and
there and there is information in there
that can still cause us trouble if it
goes out oh I I've got a different angle
here if password hacking occurs because
someone gets access to a
file of previous passwords then they're
not actually decoding your password no
they're not actually figuring out your
password from scratch correct so why is
there any difference at all between a
simple password and a complex password
if they're not decoding your password
for its complexity that is correct and
that's the other reason why you should
have a complex password because there
are different ways into uh finding out a
person's password for a particular
account one of them would be you know
just brute forcing trying all the
passwords another Techni could be
password spraying which means trying the
most common passwords on a particular
account that are known to be used by by
people and in many cases this actually
function because uh for particular
languages statistically people use
similar passwords test4 that's quite
similar from one to nine that's quite
similar I know in 2024 sounds stupid
even nowadays we find these passwords in
reality my password is password don't
never figured that one out yeah yeah
yeah somebody like from like a military
uh like a highend grade in the military
saying that I had a very simple password
because I thought they will never try
that out considering my job title it was
a so do you run algorithms based on the
probability of a certain set of
characters yeah what you have a language
is that right uh not necessarily the
probability said it's languages but also
but by by words in that particular
language and also there are billions or
hundreds of billions of passwords that
already are in the public space or in
the public domain from previous hacks so
you can make a statistics on that you
can say hey 20% of the people use this
password let's try that on first wow and
chances are to work huh we know
probability criminals know probability
so they will do their math first damn
wow you want to talk about using math
for terrible purposes you can use it for
many things you know that joke with a a
very important mathematician that
received the Nobel Prize and he had to
fly to get it and he was so afraid to
fly because he thought somebody would be
with a bomb in the plane and he want to
reach the destination but eventually at
the event he shows up everybody knew
about his his fear so they asked him
like Hey we knew your fear about you
know a bomb exploding so why are you
here how did you come like well I took a
bomb with me what were the odds of two
bombs being in the same
place well you that joke problem you
know how old that joke is it's older
than TSA right because yeah exactly
before they checked for
bomb so Alex um we're in October 2024
right now but last month there was the
National Institute of standards and
Technology that's the US National
Institute yeah that stated and this was
an article that was written in Forbes
but complicated passwords can make you
less safe yes now we're talking about
how to make complicated different
characters and different cases and
numbers and all sorts of things but why
why now complication is an issue because
that otherwise it's password one two3
yeah there are two ways of defining a
complicated passwords and one of the way
is actually okay the other way is not
really that okay so by complicating a
password by making it longer with Alpha
Characters numbers and everything else
that's going to make it that's going to
make the password super hard to remember
so unless you're using a password
manager it means that you're going to
have to write it down and so on which
basically sets you in the mindset of you
know just giving up just giving up
putting the same password because it
took you so long to create it or just
triam them down to make it easier for
you however you can make long passwords
without doing all these characters
unless the the website was or the
service forces you to by having a
passphrase I went to the moon and back
in a car that's pretty safe okay or even
long phrase something that's easier to
remember but I think NS and also our
recommendation is to use a password
manager that's going to make your life a
whole easier and also use a
multiactor identification or two- Factor
identification so besides the password
you can use something else or even
eliminate the password at all you can
you can use all these things you're
going to have a better piece of Mind by
that yeah in fact I have a couple of
websites that don't use passwords ex
send it's two Factor authentication and
don't you love going to those websites
yes it's it's a it's it's beautiful it's
okay so Neil has quite a distinctive
voice and he's in the public domain
are we now at the point where we no
longer use voice recognition as the
password that was like in style for like
six months a couple of years ago right
we out of that phase because there's
just too much AI come along to to
replicate yeah I don't think voice
recognition can be still considered a a
way of authentication and even face
recognition that's not going to work uh
any longer I was in a meeting with uh
with some of my colleagues and one of
them was in vacation but he was showing
up in the meeting on Zoom it was the
fake AI somebody was playing a joke
which was uh very nice because uh he
seemed a bit younger he probably had
photos from a previous training but that
was it was scary for us because we know
the the possibilities but it was very
nice to have wait wait wait wa wait you
just said you had a business meeting and
someone duped you into thinking an AI
version of an attendee yes but it was a
colleag it was a colleag however there
is yeah yeah yeah it was on purpose we
knew what's going on we were just
analyzing it and I was like oh this is
so cool he looks so close by but I
remember reading an article uh quite
last week about a scam in China where
somebody paid $55 million because he was
in a zoom meeting with uh I don't know
13 or 14 other people from the
organization his manager CEO CFO
everybody was saying it's safe he did it
he was the only real person in there
everybody wasse was deep fake oh my God
Bond villain Badness that's the level
we're talking that is yeah I have a a
question and plus we got to sort of
think of Landing this plane in the old
days a computer
virus was really just Mischief people
just trying to
see if they could harass you in one way
or another there wasn't much Financial
motive behind it correct and so it was a
nuisance now this kind of hacking always
seems to have a financial
objective what is the
total money earned by Bad actors so I
would say a total would be what a total
last year was $1.5 trillion dollar what
there's a t in there oh we're talking
about ransomware and other scamps but
these numbers vary I mean if last year
was 1.5 this year can easily go to two
or three trillion dollars we're talking
about scams to Target consumers right I
mean that's that's a national debt for
some countries yes or great like I said
these are just money that are earned by
cyber criminals these are not money that
counting your financial loss as a victim
you're a company when you pay that's one
number but you also have a loss in you
have a loss of productivity you have a
loss of you know yeah so I God I can't
believe I've been telling my son that he
should continue to study to be a
biochemist what the heck he's in the
wrong business he's in the wrong
business but I got one other thing I
have to like just get clear in my head
so that means in your
business you're worth $1.5 trillion
dollar to this world if you can prevent
that from happen prevent it right okay
that's fact one fact two they would
protect everybody which is not the case
okay but here's my thing if someone
retains you to protect their
organization then they're putting all
their trust in you so maybe the
organization won't get hacked but
suppose you get hacked you're a single
point failure of that entire system CU
we're all trusting you in this one what
do you call bottleneck y of of trust yes
that is called supply chain attack so
basically when you're targeting a
customer you can actually Target all the
software that they use in their
organization so we have a if if we have
a vulnerability that's going to affect
most of our customers yes that is a
correct statement so now why aren't you
just uh why are you a good guy
well you become Dr Evil what what the
heck is your problem yes we get that uh
we get that questions a lot you know we
can make a lot more money on the dark
side but then again how will you sleep
at night on a very expensive mattress
that's how that is correct because I'm
part of a trillion doll industry that I
created so Alex your Chief security
strategist yes how much of your strategy
is oh this is a supply chain
we have to get ahead of a story how many
stories are you getting ahead of rather
than putting out fires oh good point
interesting uh I think it's a equal
amount uh I would say because yes there
are some situations that you can
actually uh prevent because you thought
about it you knew that would happen and
you make some plan but then by working
with your customers and victims and
having a lot of conversations with law
enforcement they're going to come up
with stories that you were like whoa I'm
an engineer I never thought of that scam
so you start to figure out you know what
can you build from a technological point
of view to prevent that so I would say
it's a it's a fair equal amount so you
know what I think we would be remissed
if we didn't leave our viewers and
listeners having you at our disposal at
least one or two of the top things they
should do to protect themselves from a
cyber security incident so we were
discussing about passwords so that would
be like the main thing get the password
manager uh make him take care of your
passwords and try to remember all those
accounts that I'm pretty sure are
connected to your present accounts but
you no longer use them they're still
active they're still there they can
still back hacked if they're not already
right and second uh still for consumers
minimize your footprint or Internet
footprint don't post stupid stuff okay
now you tell me
I'm pretty happy I'm a dinosaur 41 years
so I don't have online all the stupid
I did oh don't post stupid things
that you did exactly oh I got it no no
no I don't do that okay and for for
Enterprises there's a wide range of uh
tips and tricks but the idea is that
since ransomware is the number one
threat right now make sure you have
backups and make sure you have systems
that are going to log things that happen
in your organization so when we come in
and say let's see how you were hacked if
you have vogs we're going to tell you
how if you don't we're going to say Well
it
happen wow wow all right well those are
lessons for the ages really yeah
actually for the current
age months they're lessons for the next
couple of years yeah maybe even that
maybe even that so Alex great having you
on Star Talk special edition on a topic
that we all care about Gary thanks for
putting that together my pleasure thank
you Alex good all right and Chuck thanks
for doing
nothing someone hug
chuck chuck thanks for showing up
okay this is Neil degrass Tyson your
personal astrophysicist as always I bid
you to keep looking up
[Music]